README.md, before:

VDI ORCHESTRATED RDP THROUGH INTERLEAVED CONTAINERIZED EXECUTION

# Vortice FreeRDP Proxy

`vortice` builds a Fedora based image that compiles FreeRDP with the bundled `vdi_broker.patch`, installs `podman`, and launches `freerdp-proxy /etc/vdi/config.ini`. Clone the repository with `git clone --recurse-submodules` (or run `git submodule update --init --recursive` after cloning) to pull in the `VORTICE-vdi` desktop template.

## Build the image
1. Review `config/config.ini` and `config/vdi_broker.yaml`. The broker defaults to `dockerfile_path: /etc/vdi/VORTICE-vdi/Containerfile`; initialize the `VORTICE-vdi` submodule (`git submodule update --init --recursive`) so the downstream desktop template is baked into the image build context.
2. Populate `keys/` with `cert.pem` / `key.pem` if you already have TLS material. When the directory is missing or empty, the build auto-generates a self-signed pair.
3. Build:
   - `podman build -t vortice .`
   - `docker build -t vortice .`
   - Override the FreeRDP tag if necessary: `podman build --build-arg FREERDP_TAG=stable-3.5 -t vortice .`

## Regenerating `vdi_broker.patch`
`vdi_broker.patch` is curated in https://github.com/marcomartini97/VDI_Broker. This project only builds correctly with patches generated from that fork. To carry your own modifications, fork `marcomartini97/VDI_Broker`, push your commits there, and then follow the steps below to produce a patch against upstream FreeRDP.
1. Work from a FreeRDP checkout that tracks both your fork (`origin`) and the official repository (`upstream`). If you need to add the upstream remote:
   ```bash
   git remote add upstream https://github.com/FreeRDP/FreeRDP.git
   git fetch upstream
   ```
2. Set the FreeRDP release tag you build against (the same value you pass as `FREERDP_TAG`) and ensure your feature branch is checked out:
   ```bash
   export FREERDP_TAG=3.17.2  # example
   git checkout your-feature-branch
   git fetch origin
   git fetch --tags upstream
   ```
   Confirm the tag exists locally before generating the patch: `git show ${FREERDP_TAG}`.
3. Create a patch that captures every commit between the upstream tag and your branch, then place it at the root of this repository:
   ```bash
   git format-patch --stdout "${FREERDP_TAG}"..HEAD > vdi_broker.patch
   ```
   The patch now contains all commits that your fork introduces relative to the official FreeRDP tag.
4. Copy the refreshed `vdi_broker.patch` into this repository and rebuild the image. Regenerate the patch whenever you rebase or add commits so it continues to align with `FREERDP_TAG`.

## Runtime assumptions
- `/etc/vdi` is baked into the image from the `config/` directory and now includes the `VORTICE-vdi` build context sourced from the submodule alongside `config.ini`, `vdi_broker.yaml`, and TLS assets.
- With the container runtime socket (`/run/podman/podman.sock` or `/var/run/docker.sock`) mounted, the broker provisions downstream containers directly. The image ships a sample `/etc/pam.d/vdi-broker` that authenticates against `/etc/shadow`; mount a different PAM stack at `pam_path` only when you need host-specific logic. Override the baked desktop template by binding an alternate build context over `/etc/vdi/VORTICE-vdi` to match the `dockerfile_path` setting.
- The container listens on TCP `3389`.
- The bundled `VORTICE-vdi` desktop image expects the host to passthrough `/etc/passwd`, `/etc/group`, and `/etc/shadow` (see `config/vdi_broker.yaml`). Ensure these mounts expose a `gnome-remote-desktop` user entry (`gnome-remote-desktop:x:960:960:GNOME Remote Desktop:/var/lib/gnome-remote-desktop:/usr/bin/nologin`) until the template adds a more flexible authentication model.

## Podman CLI example
```bash
podman run --rm -it \
  --name vortice \
  -p 3389:3389 \
  -v /run/podman/podman.sock:/run/podman/podman.sock:Z \
  -v ./config/pam.d/vdi-broker:/etc/pam.d/vdi-broker:ro \
  -v ./config/vdi_broker.yaml:/etc/vdi/vdi_broker.yaml:ro,Z \
  -v /path/to/desktop-context:/etc/vdi/VORTICE-vdi:Z \
  vortice
```
Ensure that `/etc/vdi/VORTICE-vdi/Containerfile` matches the `dockerfile_path` set in `vdi_broker.yaml`. For Docker, replace the socket path with `/var/run/docker.sock` and drop the SELinux suffix if unsupported. After cloning this repository, keep the submodule in sync with `git submodule update` when the desktop template changes upstream.

To reuse an existing host-managed PAM stack instead of the bundled example, replace the volume mount in the command above with `-v /etc/pam.d/vdi-broker:/etc/pam.d/vdi-broker:ro` (and adjust the `pam_path` if the service file lives elsewhere).

## docker-compose / podman-compose
```yaml
services:
  vortice:
    image: vortice
    container_name: vortice
    ports:
      - "3389:3389"
    volumes:
      - /run/podman/podman.sock:/run/podman/podman.sock
      - ./config/vdi_broker.yaml:/etc/vdi/vdi_broker.yaml:ro
      - /home:/home
      - /etc/shadow:/etc/shadow
      - /etc/group:/etc/group
      - /etc/passwd:/etc/passwd
      - ./config/pam.d/vdi-broker:/etc/pam.d/vdi-broker:ro
      # - /etc/pam.d/vdi-broker:/etc/pam.d/vdi-broker:ro  # optional host passthrough
      - ./VORTICE-vdi:/etc/vdi/VORTICE-vdi
    restart: unless-stopped
```
Use the same definition with `docker compose` after swapping the socket path to `/var/run/docker.sock` and trimming the SELinux suffix if unsupported. Place any downstream image Dockerfiles or build context under the `VORTICE-vdi` submodule (or update the mount to another directory) so the broker can access them. Mount `./config/vdi_broker.yaml` to override the baked broker configuration without replacing the rest of `/etc/vdi`; mount the whole `./config` directory only when you need to replace additional assets such as `config.ini`.

Commit message:

Use submodule instead of patch for broker, add logs support, update to the latest branches

README.md, after:

VDI ORCHESTRATED RDP THROUGH INTERLEAVED CONTAINERIZED EXECUTION

# Vortice FreeRDP Proxy

`vortice` builds a Fedora based image that compiles FreeRDP from the bundled `VDI_Broker` submodule, installs `podman`, and launches `freerdp-proxy /etc/vdi/config.ini`. Clone the repository with `git clone --recurse-submodules` (or run `git submodule update --init --recursive` after cloning) to pull in both the FreeRDP fork and the `VORTICE-vdi` desktop template.

## Build the image
1. Review `config/config.ini` and `config/vdi_broker.yaml`. The broker defaults to `dockerfile_path: /etc/vdi/VORTICE-vdi/Containerfile`; initialize the `VORTICE-vdi` submodule (`git submodule update --init --recursive`) so the downstream desktop template is baked into the image build context.
2. Populate `keys/` with `cert.pem` / `key.pem` if you already have TLS material. When the directory is missing or empty, the build auto-generates a self-signed pair.
3. Build:
   - `podman build -t vortice .`
   - `docker build -t vortice .`
   The build always uses the `VDI_Broker` submodule (https://github.com/marcomartini97/VDI_Broker), which is a FreeRDP fork carrying the `vdi-broker` proxy module and supporting patches. Keep the submodule up to date with `git submodule update --remote` if you need newer changes.

## Updating `VDI_Broker`
The FreeRDP fork that provides the proxy module lives in the `VDI_Broker` submodule at the repository root.
1. Pull the latest commits from the fork:
   ```bash
   git submodule update --remote VDI_Broker
   ```
2. Inspect and commit the updated submodule reference alongside any local changes. If you maintain your own fork, update the submodule URL and point it at the desired commit before rebuilding the image.

## Runtime assumptions
- `/etc/vdi` is baked into the image from the `config/` directory and now includes the `VORTICE-vdi` build context sourced from the submodule alongside `config.ini`, `vdi_broker.yaml`, and TLS assets.
- With the container runtime socket (`/run/podman/podman.sock` or `/var/run/docker.sock`) mounted, the broker provisions downstream containers directly. The image ships a sample `/etc/pam.d/vdi-broker` that authenticates against `/etc/shadow`; mount a different PAM stack at `pam_path` only when you need host-specific logic. Override the baked desktop template by binding an alternate build context over `/etc/vdi/VORTICE-vdi` to match the `dockerfile_path` setting.
- The container listens on TCP `3389`.
- The bundled `VORTICE-vdi` desktop image expects the host to passthrough `/etc/passwd`, `/etc/group`, and `/etc/shadow` (see `config/vdi_broker.yaml`). Ensure these mounts expose a `gnome-remote-desktop` user entry (`gnome-remote-desktop:x:960:960:GNOME Remote Desktop:/var/lib/gnome-remote-desktop:/usr/bin/nologin`) until the template adds a more flexible authentication model.

## Podman CLI example
```bash
podman run --rm -it \
  --name vortice \
  -p 3389:3389 \
  -v /run/podman/podman.sock:/run/podman/podman.sock:Z \
  -v ./config/pam.d/vdi-broker:/etc/pam.d/vdi-broker:ro \
  -v ./config/vdi_broker.yaml:/etc/vdi/vdi_broker.yaml:ro,Z \
  -v /path/to/desktop-context:/etc/vdi/VORTICE-vdi:Z \
  vortice
```
Ensure that `/etc/vdi/VORTICE-vdi/Containerfile` matches the `dockerfile_path` set in `vdi_broker.yaml`. For Docker, replace the socket path with `/var/run/docker.sock` and drop the SELinux suffix if unsupported. After cloning this repository, keep the submodule in sync with `git submodule update` when the desktop template changes upstream.

To reuse an existing host-managed PAM stack instead of the bundled example, replace the volume mount in the command above with `-v /etc/pam.d/vdi-broker:/etc/pam.d/vdi-broker:ro` (and adjust the `pam_path` if the service file lives elsewhere).

## docker-compose / podman-compose
```yaml
services:
  vortice:
    image: vortice
    container_name: vortice
    ports:
      - "3389:3389"
    volumes:
      - /run/podman/podman.sock:/run/podman/podman.sock
      - ./config/vdi_broker.yaml:/etc/vdi/vdi_broker.yaml:ro
      - ./logs:/var/log/vdi-broker
      - /home:/home
      - /etc/shadow:/etc/shadow
      - /etc/group:/etc/group
      - /etc/passwd:/etc/passwd
      - ./config/pam.d/vdi-broker:/etc/pam.d/vdi-broker:ro
      # - /etc/pam.d/vdi-broker:/etc/pam.d/vdi-broker:ro  # optional host passthrough
      - ./VORTICE-vdi:/etc/vdi/VORTICE-vdi
    restart: unless-stopped
```
Use the same definition with `docker compose` after swapping the socket path to `/var/run/docker.sock` and trimming the SELinux suffix if unsupported. Place any downstream image Dockerfiles or build context under the `VORTICE-vdi` submodule (or update the mount to another directory) so the broker can access them. Mount `./config/vdi_broker.yaml` to override the baked broker configuration without replacing the rest of `/etc/vdi`; mount the whole `./config` directory only when you need to replace additional assets such as `config.ini`.
